Ok.
NOTE CONF
Hello everybody.
Good afternoon.
NOTE CONF
Uh So first of all our second homework, um first
homeworks uh have been partially graded.
NOTE CONF
Uh Maybe you got your grade, maybe you didn't.
Um Those should be done.
NOTE CONF
Hopefully this week.
Um we have homework to quiz two.
NOTE CONF
Um with this time around we have a slight problem
on these um all but one vertex odd degree problems.
NOTE CONF
Uh We mentioned it last time.
Um I just want to say again, if you get
NOTE CONF
the question wrong, you should just be able to try
again and then you should get the fixed question and
NOTE CONF
it should be working.
Um Any of the questions that are incorrect, I will
NOTE CONF
go in and fix the grade and uh I don't
know, maybe at the end of the term you guys
NOTE CONF
can give me a grade for all the quiz questions
I got wrong.
NOTE CONF
Um I think what I've learned.
Uh Yeah, you have a question.
NOTE CONF
It'll be changed retroactively.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Um And if you don't see the grade change uh
at the end of the week, just uh send me
NOTE CONF
some email, I'll go in and figure out what went
wrong.
NOTE CONF
Uh I think I've gotten a lot better at manually
fixing the grades.
NOTE CONF
There's 100 and 83 of you.
I think so.
NOTE CONF
I've gotten quite efficient at going in and editing those
grades and, and getting that done.
NOTE CONF
Um, I, your question, I'm sorry, when you redo the
quiz it should be.
NOTE CONF
Um, there's two versions of the question, right.
Uh, one of them, the graph is impossible and one
NOTE CONF
of them, the solution doesn't work properly.
What's that?
NOTE CONF
Ok.
I can't hear you.
NOTE CONF
You get the impossible one.
I don't, I don't think so.
NOTE CONF
I'll have to go check, send me email if that's
what you see, I'll see if I can fix it.
NOTE CONF
You get zero.
Yes, sir.
NOTE CONF
Go.
Ok.
NOTE CONF
Well, send me some email.
I'll check it out.
NOTE CONF
Um These are so far, all of the questions with
these problems are these questions I've been trying, which have
NOTE CONF
a random number generator.
So you all get slightly different numbers with the same
NOTE CONF
theory behind it.
And uh well, I think I'm just done with that.
NOTE CONF
You guys are all going to get the same questions.
Uh And hopefully from here on out, we'll have no
NOTE CONF
more issues.
Um And if I want to add those random number
NOTE CONF
generations, I will master the quiz process first and then
uh do that.
NOTE CONF
Um Not for this class.
Um Yeah, so I would say my rating of the
NOTE CONF
quiz system so far bad, but not a total disaster.
We'll see.
NOTE CONF
There's still plenty of time for it to be a
total disaster.
NOTE CONF
Uh For now, I think it's ok and hope and
things should improve progressively as I learn how to use
NOTE CONF
the system and give you guys questions that actually work.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Um And as for that impossible graph question, I do
have to admit embarrassingly, I did write that question, but
NOTE CONF
I did spot it and then I deleted the wrong
one.
NOTE CONF
And then what happens is just like you guys, when
you go to review the quiz, you only get back
NOTE CONF
the questions you got wrong.
Well, apparently I can't preview the quiz once I've answered
NOTE CONF
all the questions.
So I went in preview the questions when that one
NOTE CONF
doesn't work, delete it out.
But now I can't preview it anymore.
NOTE CONF
OK?
Well, you guys don't need to know that but a
NOTE CONF
little bit about how bright space quiz system works.
Uh Let's pick up where we left off from last
NOTE CONF
time.
We're looking at planar graphs.
NOTE CONF
Now.
Um we did do the Euler theorem, right, which is
NOTE CONF
R is E minus V plus two.
This is good for calculating the number of regions.
NOTE CONF
Very often.
We see the formula written this way, right?
NOTE CONF
R minus E plus V equals two.
I always just remember, look, regions are the biggest, right?
NOTE CONF
They're two dimensional edges are smaller, they're one dimensional vertices
are zero dimensional.
NOTE CONF
So they kind of go in order, right, with the
signs going plus minus plus minus.
NOTE CONF
So personally, I find that one easier to remember, start
with the regions and go plus minus plus minus.
NOTE CONF
Um Where do we leave off?
Uh Let's see.
NOTE CONF
So you have some homework questions like this.
Um These should be working.
NOTE CONF
They all are right?
The easiest questions you'll get this year.
NOTE CONF
All right, you look at the number you plug, um
you plug in the formula, right?
NOTE CONF
We want to find out how many regions there would
be.
NOTE CONF
Well, we know the formula R is E minus V
plus two, right.
NOTE CONF
V.
We know there's 10 vertices.
NOTE CONF
E we don't know yet, right?
But we do know the degrees of all the vertices.
NOTE CONF
So we got to go back to our edge counting
theorem, our handshaking lemma, right?
NOTE CONF
We know that the sum of all the Greece of
all the vertices must be twice the number of edges
NOTE CONF
and some of all those for vertex degree as well,
they're all equal to three.
NOTE CONF
And we can see very easily E is what here?
15.
NOTE CONF
And once we have that, we go plug it all
in 15 minus 10 plus two.
NOTE CONF
And that will give me seven regions.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Any questions there everyone can do.
If you want to try and go draw this graph,
NOTE CONF
draw it in the plane count the regions, you should
get seven, right.
NOTE CONF
We can use the formula for calculating not just the
number of regions, but also for calculating the number of
NOTE CONF
uh edges.
If I know that I have six vertices in seven
NOTE CONF
regions, I know R minus E plus V equals two.
Right.
NOTE CONF
V we know are we know E self E will
be what R plus V minus two, which in this
NOTE CONF
case is just seven plus six minus two, right?
All there is to it.
NOTE CONF
Little bit of algebra.
Any question there everyone feels good with those problems, right?
NOTE CONF
A little bit of algebra, a little bit of arithmetic.
And sometimes we have to remember our edge counting theorem
NOTE CONF
and that's all there is to it.
OK.
NOTE CONF
I do have some problems floating around like this.
I do let these go on purpose, right?
NOTE CONF
Seven vertices all degree three, right?
No such graph, right?
NOTE CONF
Handshaking lemma, odd number odd odd degree.
Keep your eye out for those good we can do
NOTE CONF
for six vertices all degree three.
I don't know why I have so many of these.
NOTE CONF
I think you guys are good.
You guys are good on this.
NOTE CONF
All right, don't need all those.
Uh Do you want to do this one?
NOTE CONF
Now, how many vertices and edges would there be in
a plane graph that has six regions?
NOTE CONF
And each region has four boundary edges?
So you have an idea.
NOTE CONF
Well, uh let's see, I have to calculate, I don't
know the answer off the top of my head.
NOTE CONF
Let's see.
Uh we're gonna have eight, let's say for OK.
NOTE CONF
I have to think each region with four boundary edges.
12.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Yeah, I get 12 and eight.
NOTE CONF
Good, good.
Sorry guys, I got a little bit of a cold,
NOTE CONF
a little stuffy up here.
That's uh so if we think about this right, we
NOTE CONF
have a graph that has six regions and each region
has four edges going around.
NOTE CONF
But those edges, how many regions do those edges lie
on?
NOTE CONF
Hey, each edge is going to bound two regions.
So if I have six regions, assuming we have a
NOTE CONF
connected graph, right?
Each one has four boundary edges, all right, we got
NOTE CONF
our vertices here, right?
These regions are all like squares.
NOTE CONF
And uh let's see uh we have a problem we
can't draw like this because that outside region needs to
NOTE CONF
have four boundary edges.
Also let's see what is the drawing supposed to look
NOTE CONF
like outer region with four boundary edges, interior region with
four boundary edges, interior region for boundary edges, something like
NOTE CONF
this, right?
12345 and six.
NOTE CONF
So we can kind of see right.
How many edges do we have?
NOTE CONF
Four?
Four and four is 12?
NOTE CONF
How many vertices do we have?
Uh 2468?
NOTE CONF
Yeah, but we can actually reason this out the same
way we did on the last problem, right?
NOTE CONF
Look at those edges.
Each edge is on how many regions, two right, just
NOTE CONF
like in edges on two vertices and edges also on
two regions.
NOTE CONF
So we had a theorem right.
That the number of edges is um uh twice.
NOTE CONF
The number of edges is the sum of all the
vertex degrees.
NOTE CONF
Why?
Because if I count all the vertex degrees, then I
NOTE CONF
count every edge twice.
Well, if I count the number of boundary edges on
NOTE CONF
each region, then I count every edge twice, right?
So follow the same reasoning.
NOTE CONF
Um By the way, we do call this the degree
of the region.
NOTE CONF
The degree of the region is the number of edges
on it.
NOTE CONF
Um I have that definition on the next slide, I
think um we'll get to that in a moment, but
NOTE CONF
we can right to E must be the sum of
the degree of all of the regions which in this
NOTE CONF
case will be four edges each times six regions, right?
We can get the number of edges, we already know
NOTE CONF
the number of regions, but R minus E plus V
better equal two.
NOTE CONF
Now, we know R we know E V we can
solve, giving me finally V equal to uh what am
NOTE CONF
I gonna get?
Six minus 12 is minus six.
NOTE CONF
Should give me eight.
That makes sense to everybody.
NOTE CONF
We actually have a nice theorem for this.
Um Exactly, I don't think it has another name, right?
NOTE CONF
It's exactly like the handshaking lemma, right?
It's the handshaking lemma, but not on the graphs uh
NOTE CONF
edges but on the regions.
Any question there question that that's what I've just done
NOTE CONF
over here, right?
Don't have to draw it because we know that if
NOTE CONF
I sum up the number of edges on each region,
I better get twice uh twice the number of edges
NOTE CONF
because each edge will be counted twice.
It's exactly the same theorem as our handshaking lemma, right?
NOTE CONF
Because just like each edge is on two vertices, each
edge is also on two regions.
NOTE CONF
Does that make sense?
Then from here?
NOTE CONF
Right.
Once we know this is the rest is algebra, right,
NOTE CONF
we use this theorem right.
We have theorem here and then we have theorem here.
NOTE CONF
It makes some sense.
Have you have you find the uh yeah, the degree
NOTE CONF
of the regions is just the number of edges on
that region just like the degree of a vertex is
NOTE CONF
the number of edges on that vertex.
And so you can find out the bigger, well, we're
NOTE CONF
told of the problem.
Each region has four boundary edges.
NOTE CONF
That's the same statement as saying each region has degree
four.
NOTE CONF
Have you got it now?
Yeah, right.
NOTE CONF
Each region has four edges, each region has degree four.
Yes, it is on the next slide.
NOTE CONF
So the degree of a region is just the number
of edges that are on the boundary of that region.
NOTE CONF
And we have a nice corollary to theorem 131, our
handshaking uh edge counting theorem, which is that in any
NOTE CONF
plane graph, the sum of the degrees of all the
regions is twice the number of edges right, just like
NOTE CONF
it is for vertices with one little asterisk caveat, which
is that we've sort of assumed that all of those
NOTE CONF
edges are on the boundaries of regions.
What if we have an edge that's not on the
NOTE CONF
boundary of a region?
I'll show you an example really quick and I'll put
NOTE CONF
one there, right.
It's not true that edges are always on the boundary
NOTE CONF
of region.
We could have a dangly edge like this guy, right?
NOTE CONF
He's not really on the boundary of a region.
He's just hanging, he's hanging out, right.
NOTE CONF
I always call him the the dangly edge, he just
dangles.
NOTE CONF
He doesn't uh he's not part of any circuit.
So what do we do?
NOTE CONF
We count him twice on the region that he's in,
right?
NOTE CONF
And so that would make the infinite region degree four
for the four edges going around the outside, right.
NOTE CONF
Our infinite region and our inside region would be degree
six, right.
NOTE CONF
1234 for the edges going around and two for that
dangly edge inside.
NOTE CONF
Because the basis of the theorem is that each edge
counts twice because it's on two regions.
NOTE CONF
Well, if it's only on one region, we just make
sure to count it twice on that region.
NOTE CONF
And then the theorem still works.
This isn't gonna come up very often.
NOTE CONF
I just don't want to give you a theorem that's
only partially true.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So I give you the theorem with the uh the
NOTE CONF
weird exception that we count these dangly edges twice um
on the region that they're in notice that I could
NOTE CONF
have just as easily drawn that dangly edge on the
outside, not on the inside, but it would really be
NOTE CONF
the same graph, right?
It would just be transposing the inside region with the
NOTE CONF
outside region, right?
The outside would have degree six, the inside would have
NOTE CONF
degree four.
Now again, this is not really gonna come up for
NOTE CONF
you guys, but just in case you ever see this
and to not give you a theorem that's uh only
NOTE CONF
partially true, right?
We cover all the cases.
NOTE CONF
Any question on this makes sense?
Excellent, right?
NOTE CONF
And like I said, why do we count the edge
twice on the region?
NOTE CONF
Well, because we like this theorem.
And so we count the edge twice on the region
NOTE CONF
so that our theorem still works.
Now, I'm going to give you a corollary to euler's
NOTE CONF
formula.
Uh This is a very useful one in any connected
NOTE CONF
planar graph.
The number of edges must be less than three times
NOTE CONF
the number of vertices minus six.
And I should, I, I think I should add a
NOTE CONF
caveat to this which is like e greater than um
or you should give a cave out to this, which
NOTE CONF
is where I have more than one region.
I think this doesn't work quite right, if you have
NOTE CONF
just like a single edge in one region, but if
there's more than one region.
NOTE CONF
If I have a planar graph, this works.
So you guys have seen this before, some of you.
NOTE CONF
So OK, right now this is just an equation.
Let me explain briefly why this works.
NOTE CONF
And then we'll get into the proof.
So let me draw a graph with some regions, right?
NOTE CONF
We need our greater than one.
So we need some regions.
NOTE CONF
How many edges do I need to make a region?
Three?
NOTE CONF
Right?
Three is the minimum, right?
NOTE CONF
Two edges does not a region make, right, need one
more to close that loop, right?
NOTE CONF
And that's true, not just for this region but for
every region.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Right, we could have a region that has more than
NOTE CONF
four, more than three rather but not less than three.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So, so once I have two reasons, one thing I
know, right, what, what can I say about the degrees
NOTE CONF
of those regions right now that we know that these
are not just one dangly edge with a region, right?
NOTE CONF
That these, these regions are completely bounded by a circuit.
What can I say about all of the regions of
NOTE CONF
a plane?
The degrees three or more?
NOTE CONF
Right?
Three is the minimum degree that uh that a region
NOTE CONF
can have, right?
Can't be less, you can't have a region of degree
NOTE CONF
two.
You can only if you have that special case, right
NOTE CONF
where the graph has just one edge, then you get
a region of degree two, right?
NOTE CONF
But otherwise every region has degree of at least three.
And now we know right, that if we know something
NOTE CONF
about the degrees of the regions, then we know something
about the number of edges.
NOTE CONF
And that's, that's the gist of the proof.
So let me bring up the proof here and we'll
NOTE CONF
go through it as we have just shown if I
add up the degrees of all of the regions, right,
NOTE CONF
The minimum degree is three.
And so every region must have a degree of at
NOTE CONF
least three.
And so if I add up all the degrees, that's
NOTE CONF
at least three times the number of regions, everyone follow
line one.
NOTE CONF
Any questions there, I think everything follows from line one.
Once you get line one good, once we know that,
NOTE CONF
well, what is the sum of the degrees of all
the regions?
NOTE CONF
That's twice the number of edges, right?
So we'll replace that the sum of the degrees of
NOTE CONF
all the regions that's twice the number of edges that's
great or equal to three R.
NOTE CONF
We can solve out that E, right?
Just algebra, right?
NOTE CONF
We spelled out that E and then what do I
know about R?
NOTE CONF
Well, we have euler's formula, right?
R is E minus V plus two.
NOTE CONF
Once we make that substitution, we do some algebra you
can verify on your paper, right?
NOTE CONF
Um We subtract the E over and we multiply by
something and we end up with E less or equal
NOTE CONF
to three V minus six isn't that nice and terribly
convenient.
NOTE CONF
Now, one thing I love about this is there's no
R in it because in order to talk about R,
NOTE CONF
we have to have regions, in order to have regions,
we have to have a plane graph, right?
NOTE CONF
In order to have a plane graph, we have to
have a planar graph, right?
NOTE CONF
So I can talk about the planar of a graph
without ever referring to the region.
NOTE CONF
So I don't have to know if a graph is
plainer in order to calculate this.
NOTE CONF
That makes sense, right?
All I need to know is the number of vertices,
NOTE CONF
number of edges.
I don't need to know if a graph is plain
NOTE CONF
or anything to go check this.
Now um The theorem is stated very clearly, right.
NOTE CONF
This is an if not an if and only if
right, this is an if so if G is a
NOTE CONF
connected planar graph, then E is less or equal to
three V minus six.
NOTE CONF
Now we can safely conclude the contra posit right?
That if E is greater than three V minus six,
NOTE CONF
right?
If the graph has too many edges, then G is
NOTE CONF
not a connected play a graph.
Does that make sense?
NOTE CONF
Right.
If this is violated, right.
NOTE CONF
Which we can check it for any graph.
We don't have to know planar.
NOTE CONF
We don't have to drive the plane, we don't have
to count any regions, right?
NOTE CONF
Any graph we can check this.
If E is too big, then we know it's not
NOTE CONF
a connected planar graph.
What does that mean?
NOTE CONF
Well, assuming it's a graph, either it's not connected or
it's not planar.
NOTE CONF
If you know the graph is connected, you can safely
conclude it's not planar, right?
NOTE CONF
So if this is violated, we know right.
If this is violated on a connected graph, we know
NOTE CONF
that graph cannot be planar if it checks out if
we have some graph and we count the edges and
NOTE CONF
the vertices.
And this equation holds right.
NOTE CONF
This inequality holds then what can we conclude nothing, right?
It doesn't say anything about the other, the other direction,
NOTE CONF
right?
So if this is violated, we know that we have
NOTE CONF
not a planar graph, a nonplanar graph.
But if it works, it doesn't really tell us anything
NOTE CONF
right?
There are there might be nonplanar graphs for which this
NOTE CONF
inequality actually does hold right?
This is gonna hold for every planar graph but it
NOTE CONF
might hold for some nonplanar graphs as well.
So again, just a tool in your toolbox, right?
NOTE CONF
I ask you is a graph planer.
I think you have a bunch on your homework, right?
NOTE CONF
Is this graph planar.
This is one of the tools you you can check
NOTE CONF
this.
So let's take a look at K five right?
NOTE CONF
We kind of showed K five is nonplanar already by
drawing it.
NOTE CONF
But now we can make a real, a real satisfying
proof right?
NOTE CONF
Because sometimes those drawing proofs you go, well, I see
that I can't draw it but how do I really
NOTE CONF
prove it?
But now we can really prove it.
NOTE CONF
Right.
K five is nonplanar.
NOTE CONF
Well, how many edges are in K five?
Let's start with the easy one.
NOTE CONF
How many vertices are in K five?
Right?
NOTE CONF
Five.
Anyone know how many edges 10?
NOTE CONF
And by the end of this class, you won't have
to calculate that right.
NOTE CONF
You'll just know K 5, 10 edges K five comes
up a lot.
NOTE CONF
Now we can check right?
E less or equal to three V minus six.
NOTE CONF
I'll put a question mark.
I'm not saying that's true.
NOTE CONF
I'm checking it and we plug them in is 10
less or equal to three times five minus six.
NOTE CONF
What is that?
15 minus six?
NOTE CONF
Is nine?
Is 10 less or equal to nine?
NOTE CONF
No, no, I'm good at what number is bigger than
what number?
NOTE CONF
And that is definitely not bigger, right?
And now we can safely conclude the K five is
NOTE CONF
not planar.
If it had worked, we would maybe not know for
NOTE CONF
sure.
Right.
NOTE CONF
We need to do something else.
Uh Let me show you guys an example.
NOTE CONF
OK.
I'll make a little aside here, right?
NOTE CONF
We've done the proof for K five.
But what about K 33?
NOTE CONF
That's the other.
Not right.
NOTE CONF
K five and K 33.
Those are nonplanar graphs.
NOTE CONF
What about K 33?
Right?
NOTE CONF
Is E less or equal to three V minus six.
Well, how many vertices are in K 336?
NOTE CONF
How many edges?
Nine?
NOTE CONF
Right?
Three times three is nine.
NOTE CONF
Let's check is nine less or equal to three times
six minus six.
NOTE CONF
I'll put that question mark there because we're checking it
nine less or equal to, right?
NOTE CONF
Three times six minus six is two times six is
nine lesser equal to 12.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, actually that does, that checks out.
But we know K 33 is not planar, right?
NOTE CONF
So this does not help us, right?
This can help us show that a graph is not
NOTE CONF
planar, it won't help us show that it is.
And if it holds the graph might still be non
NOTE CONF
player.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
So if you know that a graph is no player
and you show that it's still checked out, does that
NOTE CONF
mean that they're not?
Hm if it doesn't check out and you know, the
NOTE CONF
graph is not plane or does that mean there's a
K 33?
NOTE CONF
I actually, I don't know, is it always K 33?
I will have to think about that.
NOTE CONF
My, my intuition says yes, but I don't know if
I can say this definitively.
NOTE CONF
Um Now what we see in this class is a
lot of small graphs because you know, we're sort of
NOTE CONF
doing this by hand and, and learning.
But in reality, when you deal with large nonplanar graphs,
NOTE CONF
very often they contain K five and K 33.
And in that case, I don't know what would happen,
NOTE CONF
I'd have to, I'd have to think about that.
I'm not sure.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Everyone do with this.
NOTE CONF
So now if only we had a tool, another tool
that would help us with this K 33 problem and
NOTE CONF
we do right.
This, this theorem doesn't help us with K through three.
NOTE CONF
But thankfully, we have another one, corollary number two, something
else we can use.
NOTE CONF
If G is, let me highlight here, a connected planar
and bipartite graph, then we can actually establish a tighter
NOTE CONF
bound e less or equal to two V minus four.
And the proof goes basically the same way.
NOTE CONF
So let's think about this before we get to the
proof.
NOTE CONF
If I have a connected planar bipartite graph, well, we
know that let's assume regions bigger than one, right, not
NOTE CONF
a one region.
Uh example, let's assume that we have some boundary, some
NOTE CONF
circuit making a boundary.
What is the smallest number of edges?
NOTE CONF
We can have to mark a region.
All right.
NOTE CONF
The last example, we said three, right, I can make
a region with three.
NOTE CONF
Why do you think three is not the answer anymore?
It's bipartite right, bipartite graph cannot have odd circuits.
NOTE CONF
So if you can have odd circuits, then it can't
have circuits of size three, which means that every region
NOTE CONF
must be bounded by at least four, right, make a
note, right, need four edges to bound.
NOTE CONF
So we just follow through the exact same reasoning only
instead of each region being at least degree three, each
NOTE CONF
region is at least degree four.
And that gives us a nice tighter bound.
NOTE CONF
So now the sum of my degrees must be at
least four are, and the rest of this is algebra,
NOTE CONF
it all goes the same way, right?
Um The sum of the degrees is equal to two
NOTE CONF
E we saw about that R that R is E
minus V plus two euler's theorem.
NOTE CONF
And then there we go.
Yes, yes.
NOTE CONF
It also, yes, you need at least two regions.
You have the same problem, right?
NOTE CONF
If I just have one edge, um I think even
if you, even if you have two edges that still
NOTE CONF
works, right?
Because two edges in one region would give you a
NOTE CONF
region of degree four, they'd be two dangly edges, they'd
all count twice.
NOTE CONF
So I'll say this holds for anything with more than
one region.
NOTE CONF
But actually, I think you can get even stronger.
You can say this holds for anything with more than
NOTE CONF
one edge.
Good, any question there.
NOTE CONF
Now, the same rule applies.
This is still an if then and in theory, I
NOTE CONF
don't know any example off the top of my head.
But in theory, if this, if this works, the graph
NOTE CONF
might be plainer, it might not, we don't know.
But if it doesn't work, then it's not a connected
NOTE CONF
plane or bipartite graph.
If E is greater than to V minus four, then
NOTE CONF
right by contra posit G is not a connected planer
bipartite graph.
NOTE CONF
Now, you need to understand from context, right?
Is it not connected?
NOTE CONF
Is it not plainer?
Is it not bipartite?
NOTE CONF
Is it not all three?
Right?
NOTE CONF
If you know the graph is connected and bipartite, then
we can safely conclude nonplanar otherwise all we can conclude
NOTE CONF
is that it's not all three, all right.
So again, just the tool in your toolbox, right?
NOTE CONF
If this might be a useful test, if you know
that a graph is connected and planar and you want
NOTE CONF
to check it for bipartite that might be useful.
Right?
NOTE CONF
Generally, we see this for a known bipartite graph that
we want to check if it's plate and just to
NOTE CONF
follow up K 33, I don't think there's anything um
right, K 33, uh we already know E is uh
NOTE CONF
V is six, E is nine, V is six, E
is nine and we can check is E less or
NOTE CONF
equal to two V minus four, is nine, less or
equal to 26 minus four.
NOTE CONF
And in fact, uh nine is not less than eight
because I know what number is bigger than what number.
NOTE CONF
And we can safely conclude since we know K three,
we know K 33, we know it's connected, we know
NOTE CONF
it's bipartite.
Therefore, it can't be planar, right?
NOTE CONF
And of course, extending this to larger graphs.
Right?
NOTE CONF
Before you start drawing in the plane, this is just
an easy thing to check, right?
NOTE CONF
If you violate the inequality, nonplanar done, if you don't
violate the inequality, then we got some more checking to
NOTE CONF
do good.
And uh oh, all I have is uh just a
NOTE CONF
rehash of what I've said, right?
If E is greater than three V minus six, then
NOTE CONF
it's not a connected plane or graph.
Is it not connected or not plainer?
NOTE CONF
That's what you have to figure out, right?
If E is greater than two B minus four G
NOTE CONF
is not a connected planar my apartheid graph, right?
Is it not connected?
NOTE CONF
Not planar, not bipartite?
That's what you have to figure out if these inequalities
NOTE CONF
are satisfied, then they didn't help us, right?
They don't tell us much.
NOTE CONF
You have a question.
Um So the second one is right.
NOTE CONF
If we violate this one, say E is greater than
two V minus four, then it's not a connected planar
NOTE CONF
bipartite graph, right?
But if we don't know, maybe the graph is plainer
NOTE CONF
but not bipartite, right?
If we know the graph is bipartite, then we can
NOTE CONF
use this to tell if it's planar.
Does that make sense?
NOTE CONF
And I would have to think to come up with
an example.
NOTE CONF
I don't have one handy, but it is certainly possible
that there is a nonplanar graph right, that satisfies all
NOTE CONF
of these, right?
Otherwise the theorem wouldn't be stated this way, right.
NOTE CONF
So it is possible to come up with a connected
planar graph that satisfies a connected nonplanar graph that satisfies
NOTE CONF
both of these.
That's a fun problem for you guys to think about
NOTE CONF
see if you can come up with one.
If you do.
NOTE CONF
I'd like to see it actually.
All right.
NOTE CONF
Um summary for section 1.4 we talked about planar graphs.
How do we tell if a graph is planar or
NOTE CONF
not?
We do the circuit chord method.
NOTE CONF
We check euler's formula and its corollaries.
We can count the number of regions.
NOTE CONF
And also we have Kurowski's theorem.
That's going to be the big one on your next
NOTE CONF
homework.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Next homework you're gonna get right here's some nonplanar graphs.
You're gonna have to find those K fives and K
NOTE CONF
three threes, right?
We gotta find those uh configurations.
NOTE CONF
OK?
We got plenty of time left.
NOTE CONF
So let's start to talk about um Oiler cycles.
Now, this brings us to chapter two and we come
NOTE CONF
for a full circle right back to where we began
just to reiterate since about to use these words a
NOTE CONF
whole lot.
A path has no repeated vertices.
NOTE CONF
A trail has no repeated edges, right?
A circuit is like a path but it closes on
NOTE CONF
itself.
A cycle is like a trail, right?
NOTE CONF
But closes on itself, it begins where it ends.
Um And with the caveat that by the way, today,
NOTE CONF
we're gonna talk about oiler cycles.
Guess what if you look it up on Wikipedia.
NOTE CONF
What's it called Oiler Circuit, right.
The words are backwards in other books.
NOTE CONF
And I'm pretty sure Wikipedia follows that standard.
So I'm gonna follow the wording in our textbook because
NOTE CONF
that's what's in our book and what's in our notes.
We just remember if we look it up elsewhere, we
NOTE CONF
might find the circuit and cycle definition switched.
Ok.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Back to where we began.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Seven bridges through Koenigsberg, right?
NOTE CONF
Can we walk over each bridge exactly once we know
that we can't, right?
NOTE CONF
But now we're going to get into really why we
can't let me see what I have here, right?
NOTE CONF
So these are the questions on our minds.
Let me make the definition first.
NOTE CONF
What we're looking for in this case is what we
call the oiler cycle, right?
NOTE CONF
We're looking for a cycle through the graph with no
repeated edge, right?
NOTE CONF
We don't cross any bridge twice and we want to
cover all the edges, right?
NOTE CONF
So that is exactly what we call the oiler cycle,
right?
NOTE CONF
It is a cycle that is no edges repeated and
it traverses every edge.
NOTE CONF
And so one of the things you guys will mix
up, um when I see your writing is cycle versus
NOTE CONF
oiler cycle, right?
Anything that goes around in a cycle, right?
NOTE CONF
That uh doesn't repeat any edges is a cycle in
oiler cycle specifically covers every edge.
NOTE CONF
So let's start by build some intuition.
Look at some simple examples K five.
NOTE CONF
Do we have an oiler cycle?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
In fact, there are many, in fact, K five is
a great example here because, because the structure of K
NOTE CONF
five, it's hard.
You, you can't not find one, right.
NOTE CONF
Just pick a vertex walk at random walk at random
walk at random.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Not uh going back the way you came, right, walk
NOTE CONF
at random walk at random random.
I'm not thinking very hard.
NOTE CONF
Right.
You start walking around, don't uh duplicate any edges.
NOTE CONF
I mean, you can not find it.
And so I'll just say yes and many, right?
NOTE CONF
I mean, you just start somewhere, make whatever decision you
want.
NOTE CONF
Walk around, you're gonna find it.
OK.
NOTE CONF
How about this guy?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
You see it, right?
NOTE CONF
We gotta have two cycles here, right?
We've got an outside cycle and an inside cycle and
NOTE CONF
let me ask you guys, what did you find what
you said it first?
NOTE CONF
What did you find?
Start at F good B go around all the way
NOTE CONF
again and then, and then you go to the inside
one, right?
NOTE CONF
So making sure you start on the middle, right?
We do the outside and then we do the inside.
NOTE CONF
We could of course, start on a, do the inside
first and then the outside.
NOTE CONF
That would work too.
In fact, we can switch from the inside to outside
NOTE CONF
anywhere we want, we can start going around the outside.
Maybe we get to hear then decide we want to
NOTE CONF
do the inside, then go back and finish the outside,
right.
NOTE CONF
You do the same thing from the inside, right?
Take those away.
NOTE CONF
We can start on the inside, do one edge, then
decide we want to do the outside.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Then I come back here now.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, I, I can do whatever I want.
I can then do the in, then do the rest
NOTE CONF
of the inside and then finish it off.
Let's see, I'm actually going to go off the top
NOTE CONF
of my head.
I'm pretty sure I can go inside outside, inside.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So I start on the inside.
NOTE CONF
Then I do part of the outside, then I go
back to the inside, then I go back to the
NOTE CONF
outside again, then I go back to the inside again.
So basically, so I want you to have this in
NOTE CONF
your head, right?
That there are these two circuits and how do we
NOTE CONF
make the oiler circuit?
Well, we're kind of going between the two circuits, right?
NOTE CONF
We could do one first then the other, but there's
other ways to do it.
NOTE CONF
We can do part of one and then part of
the other.
NOTE CONF
Ok.
How about this guy?
NOTE CONF
All right.
I've got a circuit around the outside, but then I
NOTE CONF
can do one of those diagonals, but I can't get
to the other one.
NOTE CONF
Right?
I can try to do it differently.
NOTE CONF
Maybe I start on the diagonals but then I still
have a problem.
NOTE CONF
Right?
I can go here.
NOTE CONF
But then I can't get, I just can't get that
last edge.
NOTE CONF
Right.
No, on this one.
NOTE CONF
So now we're getting to, what is, what is the
difference?
NOTE CONF
What is the thing that allows this to exist versus
not, right?
NOTE CONF
Why do I have one here?
Right.
NOTE CONF
But not here.
Yes, that's it.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Look at the vertices.
NOTE CONF
I think someone actually had this, right?
Was it you sir?
NOTE CONF
Someone over here had it on the first day of
class too?
NOTE CONF
Right here.
I have these vertices have odd degree right over here.
NOTE CONF
Auburn sees even and oh, let's take a look at
this one.
NOTE CONF
This is a good one.
Bow tie case.
NOTE CONF
Do, do, do what I use my highlighter highlighter is
better, right?
NOTE CONF
Do do do do do do, right?
No problem.
NOTE CONF
Again, we have two circuits, right?
I've got a triangle on the left and a triangle
NOTE CONF
on the right.
Those are both circuits or uh cycles, right?
NOTE CONF
Those are both cycles.
Do do do do, do do and then what do
NOTE CONF
I do?
I could do one first and then the other or
NOTE CONF
I do part of one and then the other and
then I go back right.
NOTE CONF
All there to see is even degree.
And how about this one?
NOTE CONF
I think it's the last one.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Uh oh Not the last one.
OK.
NOTE CONF
How about this one?
This one?
NOTE CONF
If you look, I had this one?
Is from the textbook.
NOTE CONF
Right now.
We can look and see all vertices even degree.
NOTE CONF
But can you find it?
Yeah, I see it.
NOTE CONF
There's a few ways to do it.
Right.
NOTE CONF
I think it's easy to go.
OK, before we leave.
NOTE CONF
H Right.
Because if I leave, H, I won't be able to
NOTE CONF
get back.
I've got to do this one but then I'm pretty
NOTE CONF
much free to kind of, uh, be careful.
Don't go back to sea because we can't go there
NOTE CONF
till the end.
So it's not like some of the other examples we
NOTE CONF
can wander around, however you want to be sure to
find it, right?
NOTE CONF
There's a few things we got to be careful of
on this one, right?
NOTE CONF
But we will get there.
Although you ever do these things when you're a kid,
NOTE CONF
like can you draw this picture without picking your pen
up?
NOTE CONF
Right?
That's this right?
NOTE CONF
You draw this picture without picking up your pen, right?
That's what I'm doing.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So it's not always so easy, right?
NOTE CONF
The K five was great.
We could do whatever we wanted.
NOTE CONF
We always found it here.
We had to, we had to be careful at a
NOTE CONF
couple of points.
Um How this one?
NOTE CONF
All right.
Certainly not odd degree vertices.
NOTE CONF
So what happens?
Right?
NOTE CONF
Let's say we start here arbitrarily, right?
If there is a circuit, it doesn't matter where you
NOTE CONF
start because a circuit is a circle, right?
But let's go here.
NOTE CONF
So I come to C and then I leave C
I use two of the edges on C how many
NOTE CONF
edges do you have?
Left?
NOTE CONF
One is we're looking for an oiler cycle.
So we're gonna have to use that last inch.
NOTE CONF
But what happens when we use that last edge, we
can't get out, we get trapped.
NOTE CONF
So if anything has degree one, obviously, we can't have
an oiler cycle.
NOTE CONF
Now, if we think about it as we build the
oiler cycle, if something, every time we go through a
NOTE CONF
vertex, the degree the usable edges on that vertex go
down by two, right?
NOTE CONF
Because we go in and then we go out.
So every time we do that degree goes down by
NOTE CONF
two.
So anything that has odd degree will eventually become degree
NOTE CONF
one, right?
And eventually be a black hole, you'll, there'll be one
NOTE CONF
way in and no way out and you'll get trapped
there.
NOTE CONF
The only place where that's OK is the starting vertex,
right?
NOTE CONF
Because when I leave, I leave one edge behind to
close the circuit, right?
NOTE CONF
But even still, that means even degree, right?
Because I take one to go out and I leave
NOTE CONF
behind one to come back.
Did you have a question?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Right.
NOTE CONF
I can try, but I'm gonna find myself in trouble.
Right?
NOTE CONF
Can't go there.
And uh it is not just that I can't go
NOTE CONF
there, but also I have to go there.
Right?
NOTE CONF
Because I have to include that edge, right?
But I also can't because if I go there, I
NOTE CONF
get trapped.
Right?
NOTE CONF
So no Wheeler cycle.
Come on CYO I can spell.
NOTE CONF
Yes, that's it.
Right?
NOTE CONF
If any vertex in the graph has odd degree.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So what about a graph that has one vertex of
odd degree?
NOTE CONF
To what?
No such thing?
NOTE CONF
Right.
OK.
NOTE CONF
I'm trying to trick you guys.
Right?
NOTE CONF
No such thing.
One vertex I had to read is, but you could
NOTE CONF
have two, right?
That's the smallest number you can have and Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Right.
You might have 100 vertices of even degree and you're
NOTE CONF
going around and around.
No problem.
NOTE CONF
But still you have those two odd degree vertices, right?
You go through them every time you go through the
NOTE CONF
vertex, it reduces by two.
Eventually it has degree one, right?
NOTE CONF
And then you can get in and can't get out
but you still have the other one left to get
NOTE CONF
to.
No, you can't but you can have two.
NOTE CONF
What?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Um That vertex on the outside has to be one,
one is o Yeah.
NOTE CONF
What's, what's, what's your counterexample?
So pretend you don't have CE and BF.
NOTE CONF
So hold on, let me, let's, let's draw this, right?
So we got this shape, the shape but we have
NOTE CONF
only this diamond, right?
No CE no BF.
NOTE CONF
And who do you want to connect it to?
Doesn't matter?
NOTE CONF
Right?
OK.
NOTE CONF
Right.
No oiler circuit, right?
NOTE CONF
Odd degree odd degree.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Right now we have two odd degrees and it's always
gonna be, now, this case is extreme, right?
NOTE CONF
Because you get, you can't get out there and never
come back.
NOTE CONF
But if you have two odd degrees internally like this
one, you're always gonna have one that you get stuck
NOTE CONF
in and then the other one you still have to
get back to.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Ok.
NOTE CONF
So what do you want?
You want?
NOTE CONF
Not with this one, but just c ce, right?
Ce, same problem, right?
NOTE CONF
I can come through here.
But now what, where are you doing?
NOTE CONF
Which way do I go?
Right.
NOTE CONF
Whichever way I go, I, I take one edge and
I can't get to the other one.
NOTE CONF
Right?
And it's specifically, it's, it's two edges on an odd
NOTE CONF
degree vertex, right?
It's uh well, in this case, it's between odd degree
NOTE CONF
vertex and getting back to the starting point, the starting
guy, he kind of acts like an odd degree except
NOTE CONF
you only have to come back to him at the
end, right?
NOTE CONF
Because you take one edge to go out and he's
kind of odd, which means that you can get stuck
NOTE CONF
in him at the end, but that's what you want,
right?
NOTE CONF
It's a, it's a cycle.
So we wanna get stuck in the vertex that we
NOTE CONF
started in good.
Any other question on this one question?
NOTE CONF
Is there a way that it's not, that's a good
question.
NOTE CONF
If so we know that if, right, So it seems
intuitive.
NOTE CONF
I think that if we have odd degree vertices, we
can't have an oiler cycle.
NOTE CONF
But if they're all even do, we always have one.
That's the question.
NOTE CONF
Right.
That's the question.
NOTE CONF
Right.
The answer is yes, we always have one.
NOTE CONF
But it's not intuitive.
We have to prove it.
NOTE CONF
Um There is, by the way, one more condition to
have an oiler cycle.
NOTE CONF
Right?
It has to have all vertex's even degree.
NOTE CONF
And do you know what the other condition might be?
Yes, connected has to be connected, right.
NOTE CONF
Disconnected graphs can do it.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So it must be connected, right?
And it must be all even degrade.
NOTE CONF
And I sort of been hinting at all the concepts
we're gonna need for this proof.
NOTE CONF
This is not an easy proof.
It's a little tedious we'll get through it.
NOTE CONF
Oh gee.
OK.
NOTE CONF
That's not good.
Um So OK, let's do the theorem.
NOTE CONF
Um So an oiler recycle exists if, right, I should
say if and only if it is connected and all
NOTE CONF
of our diseases have even degree.
That is our theorem.
NOTE CONF
Now, I had put a picture here just to serve
as an example.
NOTE CONF
Um since obviously my picture did not come out, right.
Right.
NOTE CONF
What we actually, what I actually have here is a
copy of one of the graphs we did earlier.
NOTE CONF
It's the one that looks something like this.
I usually do blue for vertices and green for uh
NOTE CONF
let's see those are now OK, let me, let me
not make this up.
NOTE CONF
Let me go.
So the example I wanted to use for this proof
NOTE CONF
was this one.
So let me just uh copy this duplicate.
NOTE CONF
One of these usually says, oh clone used to be
called duplicate, they changed it on me.
NOTE CONF
So let's come here and let's take away all of
this.
NOTE CONF
I want to give you a sort of visual representation
of how this proof is gonna work.
NOTE CONF
Now, remember what we did on K five, right?
We were able to just kind of wander around and
NOTE CONF
we couldn't miss it, right?
We always end up in the oiler cycle, the oiler
NOTE CONF
cycle.
Now, for this one, there were some things to watch
NOTE CONF
out for.
So in order to con to construct this proof, we're
NOTE CONF
going to do a proof by construction.
So we're going to construct the oiler cycle, but we're
NOTE CONF
gonna have to do this in a methodical way in
a way that I can tell you what the steps
NOTE CONF
are.
I can't just say walk through all the vertices until
NOTE CONF
you walk through until you hit all the edges and
then come back to the beginning, right?
NOTE CONF
Because we're, we're trying to prove that that's possible.
So I need to do is give step by step
NOTE CONF
instructions.
Now the step by step instructions are gonna be just
NOTE CONF
like K five.
We're gonna pick a starting vertex and we're just gonna
NOTE CONF
walk around randomly.
We're gonna see what happens.
NOTE CONF
Maybe we find the oiler cycle.
Maybe we don't.
NOTE CONF
But if we don't, we're going to have some way
to fix it.
NOTE CONF
So let's pick, let's pick.
A, is the first letter of the alphabet.
NOTE CONF
Why not start with a, and let's just walk around
Willy nilly, not paying attention to those important things.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Maybe I just wa wander down this way and I
NOTE CONF
wander this way and maybe I come around here and
I don't, I don't remember to go find that triangle
NOTE CONF
and I come this way and I end up back
at a so I have constructed a cycle but not
NOTE CONF
the oiler cycle, right?
Because I missed some of those edges.
NOTE CONF
Now, question is there anywhere else I could end up,
could I end up anywhere?
NOTE CONF
But a suppose I follow this technique of wander around
the graph aimlessly with no particular rhyme or reason.
NOTE CONF
Where could I possibly end up?
Hm.
NOTE CONF
But assuming you keep on going until you can't go
anymore, how might I end up stuck in a vertex
NOTE CONF
with nowhere to go?
You can't, they had to, they had to have an
NOTE CONF
odd degree.
The only vertex that has an odd degree when we're
NOTE CONF
not sitting on that vertex is the one we started
with.
NOTE CONF
Right?
Because imagine, right.
NOTE CONF
Ignore the highlight for a second.
We start at a and now while I'm leaving a
NOTE CONF
so I'm sitting on this edge now a has an
odd degree but no one else does, right?
NOTE CONF
Because I have not arrived at D yet and marked
off that edge, right?
NOTE CONF
So from this point, the only place I could ever
end up with end up is a because when I
NOTE CONF
get to D it has even degree.
So I take one of the edges in, I take
NOTE CONF
one of the edges out, right.
I'll never be left with one edge behind.
NOTE CONF
I might leave two edges behind or four edges behind
or zero edges behind.
NOTE CONF
For example, when I go through vertex N right, I
leave zero edges behind.
NOTE CONF
I've used them all right.
But I don't have to go back to N I've
NOTE CONF
used all the edges.
So the only place I could end up with, the
NOTE CONF
only place I could end up is a right and
the only place I could end up is a and
NOTE CONF
so this wander around randomly must create a cycle, right?
It can't create anything else.
NOTE CONF
Now, it might create the oiler cycle that would be
lucky, but it might not, right.
NOTE CONF
It might go like this, it might leave some edges
behind.
NOTE CONF
So what do you think we're gonna do?
Yes, that's right.
NOTE CONF
Um First of all, every vertex will have an even
number of edges because I left, I also returned to
NOTE CONF
everyone I entered, I also left, right.
And so we still, it, the, the graph may not
NOTE CONF
be connected anymore, but that's OK.
It was connected at the beginning.
NOTE CONF
That's what matters.
It may not be connected anymore, but I just pick
NOTE CONF
a new starting vertex.
All the remaining vertices have even degree.
NOTE CONF
And so the same rules apply, I can do it
again.
NOTE CONF
And so let's do it again, right?
Pick a starting vertex.
NOTE CONF
Let's start with C why not?
OK.
NOTE CONF
We wander, wander, wander, no choices, no choices, no choices,
no choices, no choices, no choices.
NOTE CONF
OK?
We found another cycle now we haven't hit all the
NOTE CONF
edges yet.
So we have to do it again.
NOTE CONF
And so we pick any vertex that's left and we
wander, wander, wander.
NOTE CONF
Um Let's do it in a different color.
Let's get our blue one out, wander, wander wander.
NOTE CONF
And so I've expressed this graph as three cycles.
In this case, three in general, it could be one,
NOTE CONF
it could be 100 it could be any number.
But by the rules that we're following each time we
NOTE CONF
do this, we must create a cycle.
And so we're going to decompose the graph into cycles,
NOTE CONF
right?
There's some randomness in it, right?
NOTE CONF
I don't tell you how to choose the edges, how
to wander around.
NOTE CONF
But it doesn't matter.
You can always do it and you will always end
NOTE CONF
up with a result that is a decomposition of the
graph into cycles.
NOTE CONF
Now, to complete the proof to show that we can
always make an oiler cycle, we're going to assemble these
NOTE CONF
into a single cycle.
Now, do you remember along the way I was kind
NOTE CONF
of pointing out like, well, we have this inside, we
have these different cycles so we can kinda go from
NOTE CONF
one to the other.
That's what we're gonna do, right.
NOTE CONF
These cycles, let's pick any two cycles.
Um, let's, we'll pick anyone to start with, let's start
NOTE CONF
with the green one.
Now, the green cycle must intersect another cycle.
NOTE CONF
How do I know it must intersect another cycle?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Um, No, because that's actually true for every cycle, every
cycle must intersect some other cycle, right?
NOTE CONF
The purple one doesn't intersect the blue one, but every
cycle intersects some other cycle cause it's connected, right?
NOTE CONF
If I had a cycle that doesn't intersect any other
cycle, then the graph must be disconnected, right?
NOTE CONF
There's no way to, how would I get from a
vertex on this cycle to a vertex on that cycle?
NOTE CONF
How would I get right?
To be connected?
NOTE CONF
There must be a path.
Where's that path?
NOTE CONF
Right?
It must be partly on one and partly on the
NOTE CONF
other, right?
And so there must be a vertex in common.
NOTE CONF
So that's the idea here.
So what am I gonna do?
NOTE CONF
I'm going to pick one cycle to start with and
I'm going to walk along it until I get to
NOTE CONF
a vertex that's shared with another cycle, right?
So let's say for example, I pick a and I
NOTE CONF
start going down my green cycle.
Now I arrive at what is that ad?
NOTE CONF
Right?
D is on green and purple.
NOTE CONF
So what can we do from D, we can definitely
go around the purple cycle right back to D and
NOTE CONF
then we can continue the green cycle.
Good.
NOTE CONF
Now, I have a new cycle that's green plus purple.
That cycle.
NOTE CONF
If there's any right, that cycle must intersect the next
one because it's connected.
NOTE CONF
And so I do the same thing.
So now I walk around green plus purple.
NOTE CONF
Do do right.
Right.
NOTE CONF
I go a DC I, right, I go around purple,
then I go around green and then when I get
NOTE CONF
to that shared vertex, H then I walk around the
blue one and then I finish the right.
NOTE CONF
And so I take all those cycles and I, I
glue them together at their shared vertices.
NOTE CONF
That's the idea of the proof.
Now, all we have to do is write it.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So this is how I've written it up, right?
NOTE CONF
Given a connected graph G we'll start at some vertex
A and then from A, we will trace out a
NOTE CONF
trail, right?
Any particular way we just keep on going and going
NOTE CONF
until we can't go anymore.
Each degree being even means we will never be forced
NOTE CONF
to stop until we return to A.
So we must return to A, this gives us a
NOTE CONF
cycle C but not necessarily the oiler cycle, right?
Everyone's with me so far.
NOTE CONF
OK.
Now I do it again with G prime, which is
NOTE CONF
the graph G minus that cycle that I found.
Right?
NOTE CONF
I take all those edges.
I used away, I pick a new starting point and
NOTE CONF
I start again.
Now I must have a common vertex between C and
NOTE CONF
G prime.
That is the graph where I'm finding the second cycle,
NOTE CONF
right?
So after I remove C from G, I have G
NOTE CONF
prime left and they must share a vertex.
So I'm gonna make sure to start on that shared
NOTE CONF
vertex when I make the second cycle because we saw
right, everyone connects to some, every cycle connects to some
NOTE CONF
cycle.
But it's possible, right?
NOTE CONF
If I go back here just for a second, right?
I could have done the green one first and then
NOTE CONF
the blue one second and then the uh oh those
do touch.
NOTE CONF
OK.
I could have done the purple one first and then
NOTE CONF
the blue one second, right?
And then they wouldn't touch.
NOTE CONF
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna make sure
to start on a vertex for my first cycle.
NOTE CONF
So that way my first cycle and my second cycle
will definitely be touching and then I can glue them
NOTE CONF
together immediately.
So this is how I constructed the proof, right?
NOTE CONF
There must be a common vertex from the cycle I
found to the remaining vertices.
NOTE CONF
It start at the common vertex and build a new
cycle C prime.
NOTE CONF
Then I create a new circuit by following C from
A to a prime, right?
NOTE CONF
Following C from the starting vertex to some shared vertex
with the new, with the other cycle.
NOTE CONF
Then I do the second cycle.
Then I finish the first cycle, right.
NOTE CONF
So I follow C from A to a prime C
prime, from a prime back to a prime, the whole
NOTE CONF
cycle.
And then following C again, from a prime back to
NOTE CONF
A and then maybe we're done, maybe we have an
oiler cycle if not repeat, right, the set of vertices
NOTE CONF
that are left, right and then right repeat until no
vertices remain right.
NOTE CONF
So we repeat, where do we repeat from?
Right.
NOTE CONF
Right here.
Right.
NOTE CONF
I subtract my cycle from the whole graph to see
that there's some vertices left.
NOTE CONF
They must have some vertices in common.
I started a common vertex, trace out another cycle.
NOTE CONF
Then I glue it into the right.
So I'm building the cycle from pieces as I go.
NOTE CONF
This is an iterative process.
You can always do it, you can follow the steps,
NOTE CONF
right.
And we've proven that right, when we trace out this
NOTE CONF
trail, we always end up where we began.
So we always get a cycle and we always have
NOTE CONF
a vertex to start on to trace out the next
cycle, right?
NOTE CONF
As long as there's vertex remaining.
All right.
NOTE CONF
This one's pretty technical.
You have a question.
NOTE CONF
Oh It on the exam, it's like twice as long
as this.
NOTE CONF
No, I don't.
I, I actually um um we have some time but
NOTE CONF
I don't, I don't give proofs on the exam.
Uh proofs are for the homework on the exam.
NOTE CONF
What I'll give you is more like what you see
on the quiz.
NOTE CONF
Um But theoretical questions like um I won't say prove
or give a counterexample.
NOTE CONF
I might just say true or false or I might
just say um which of the following are a valid
NOTE CONF
theorem.
So you still need to use your sort of proof
NOTE CONF
like reasoning.
But I think uh for short, the exams are like
NOTE CONF
an hour and a half, right?
How many proofs can I give you in an hour
NOTE CONF
and a half?
So, um I don't do proofs on the exam.
NOTE CONF
I do some sh short answer questions.
Instead, if you know your proofs, you should get the
NOTE CONF
short answers.
Good.
NOTE CONF
Any questions on this?
Good, everyone's OK with this.
NOTE CONF
No questions, no questions.
You need some time to digest it maybe.
NOTE CONF
Oh Unfortunately, uh Stony Brook is having some problem with
their file share server.
NOTE CONF
You may notice um the last two lectures, I have
the blank lectures, but not the ones from class.
NOTE CONF
I have our lectures on a file share that I
have at the lectern.
NOTE CONF
But you've noticed I can't get cell service to log
into bright space here and I can't get the files,
NOTE CONF
share access on my computer where I have access to
Bright space.
NOTE CONF
Um I figured out a workaround to upload the lectures
so I can upload the lectures through the virtual sync
NOTE CONF
site um through the VNC, but I have not yet
figured out how to download them to share them with
NOTE CONF
you.
I'll get that fixed as soon as I can.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
The code on the Duo app.
NOTE CONF
Um Can you show me after class?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Um OK.
We only have five minutes left.
NOTE CONF
So let's do real quick.
Uh Let's see.
NOTE CONF
I think that's right.
Or their cycles.
NOTE CONF
Examples, right?
Those are the easy ones, right?
NOTE CONF
We already saw this one, right?
No.
NOTE CONF
OK.
What do you guys think?
NOTE CONF
Next one?
No, next one now, right?
NOTE CONF
Um I'll highlight these.
Here's our degree threes.
NOTE CONF
Uh Here's our degree threes.
Here they are, right?
NOTE CONF
Any two, even if there's one odd degree vertex there.
Well, there's no such thing, right?
NOTE CONF
OK.
Uh How about this one?
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Um oh By the way, um do I have it
NOTE CONF
on the original theorem?
Um I didn't write it but it's it.
NOTE CONF
Um I'll make a note for next time.
Um This theorem for O cycles holds for multi graphs,
NOTE CONF
right?
This is not just for, for graphs.
NOTE CONF
This holds for multi graphs.
I believe it also holds for pseudo gras, although it's
NOTE CONF
kind of silly to talk about cycles on a pseudograph
because you can have a cycle to yourself.
NOTE CONF
Uh So here we do have a multi graph, but
this one works, right.
NOTE CONF
Right.
I draw without picking up my pen.
NOTE CONF
OK.
This one we know this one works great.
NOTE CONF
And what was the last one?
All right.
NOTE CONF
Multi graph again.
But this one works just fine.
NOTE CONF
In fact, if it works, it almost doesn't matter what
I do.
NOTE CONF
I just have to be careful.
I don't, um, cut off a whole cycle.
NOTE CONF
Right.
And if I do, I get back to the beginning
NOTE CONF
and I go, oh, I cut off a cycle and
then I glue the cycles together like we did in
NOTE CONF
the proof.
Ok.
NOTE CONF
I think that's good for today.
We'll pick up next time.
NOTE CONF
We'll cover oiler trails.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Same idea.
Hit all the edges.
NOTE CONF
But, uh, we don't have to go back where we
started.
NOTE CONF
So, this is ok.